# Generative Goal Modeling - IEEE RE 2025

The Goal Generation study investigates the generation of simple goal models from interview transcripts. The transcript dataset is contained in the data1/transcripts.json file.

The transcripts.json file has the following shape where `transcript`, `actions`, and `goalmodel` are lists. There are 34 transcripts, and the shape of each turn is for a transcript shown. The `actions` field is a string containing goals and actions the interviewer identified during the interview, and the `goalmodel` field contains the goal graph generated by the interviewer.

```
>>> import json
>>> transcripts = json.load(open("transcripts.json"))
>>> transcripts.keys()
dict_keys(['transcript', 'actions', 'goalmodel'])
>>> transcripts['transcript'][0][0].keys()
dict_keys(['turn', 'speaker', 'text', 'goals', 'actions'])
```


The study consists of the following steps:

1. **Extract Goals from Transcripts.** This step may be performed in two modes: (a) whole transcript, or (b) moving window. In whole transcript, goals are extracted from the entire transcript. This approach is prompted 10 times to generate a diverse sample. In moving window, goals are extracted from a window of four speaker turns that moves at a rate of two turns per prompt. Each window is prompted once.
   
2. **Analyze Extracted Goals.** This step computes basic statistics from extracted goals, including which speaker source text was traced to each goal.

3. **Cluster Goals from Repeated Sampling.** This step uses agglomerative clustering to cluster goals using Euclidean distance. Goals are next sampled from each cluster for use in the model generation step.

4. **Build Goal Refinement Graph.** This step prompts the model to generate a simple goal graph consisting of directed, acyclic refinement edges.

5. **Extract Goal Graph from Python Code.** This step extracts the goal graph from the generated Python code.

The extracted goal graphs are represented using node and edge sets, which are then analyzed using ground truth annotations of a stratefied sample of labeled edges. The ground truth data consists of:

* **comps_unlabeled.csv** The unlabeled goal refinement relationship sample, which includes refinements coded with the following keys: 'POSITIVE' means the refinement relationship was generated by the model in one direction; 'SYMMETRIC' means the model generated the refinement relationship in both directions; and 'NEGATIVE' means the model did not generated the refinement relationship. The file contains 250 positive, 50 symmetric and 250 negative relationships in total.

* **comps_round1** The first round of 50 labeled relationships, randomly ordered.

* **comps_round2** The second round of an additional 50 labeled relationships, randomly ordered.

* **comps_final** The final labeled dataset.


